jared polin froknowsphoto.com it's time
for a quick tip and this week's quick
tip revolves around spraying and praying
so it's not i want to rant on it but i'm
gonna make it a quick tip instead of a
rant spraying and praying what that
means is you just sit there and go to DD
DD DD and you hope that you get a good
picture well most of the times you make
maybe you'll get something out of it
but one you're wasting time you're
shooting way too many pictures then
you're gonna have to go edit those
pictures you're filling up cards you're
not anticipating the moment so when it
comes to taking photographs think about
what you're about to do set your camera
to single until you get into the habit
of anticipating the moment and feeling
it before you shoot a picture limit
yourself to one shot and here's a good
way to limit yourself imagine that every
time you take a picture it costs you a
dollar a dollar so if you come back and
you shot 600 pictures in a 1 hour span
you just spent $600 and did you get any
good images I don't know but if it's
costing you a dollar every time you
press the button are you gonna make it
worth your while when you do press the
button yeah you're going to do that so
this is how you do it anticipate the
moment if somebody blinks a lot instead
of just motor driving through it
anticipate the blink you can see them
blink once and then talk and just know
when it's going to happen you can feel
when somebody's either going to blink or
they're not going to blink and you just
beat them to it that's one thing to do
if somebody's blinking if you're
shooting sports wait for the peak action
that happens somebody's coming around
the bend
well wait till they get around that bend
and then boom shoot them
wait til the basketball players at the
top of their arc to shoot a picture
don't sit there when a baseball player
is swinging and go cool and try to get
that perfect moment when you're better
and you've and you've gotten down the
a patient of the moment then you can
start shooting a little quicker I mean
when I shoot quicker I don't shoot nine
frames a second though my camera can I
do a burst of two or three I do a burst
for certain reasons because I'm looking
for something but I'm also not over
shooting just just remember that every
time you press the button it's a dollar
if you just hold the button down you get
five frames a second and you shoot five
frames in one second that's five bucks
if you do that thing ten times you're
fifty dollars out of your pocket so you
don't try not to spray-and-pray
anticipate feel the moment I mean it
comes down to a feel if you sense that
it's gonna happen get ready and get it
shoot that picture boom shoot that next
picture boom don't sit there and go boom
boom boom boom I see people do this all
the time they take three pictures every
time they press the button well that's
just the waste and don't do these things
where you hold it above your head don't
do these things where you hold it below
just know that no most of the time those
aren't going to work is it worth that
dollar to take that picture is it worth
that five dollars to hold that button
down are you actually getting something
of the kid on the swing when you're just
holding the button down you're really
not seeing what you're doing or are you
better off feeling that moment where the
kid is on the swing and they're at the
apex and you get to smiling you're like
boom I got it and then you try it again
the next time boom I got it then you
move on to the next shot so that's my
quick tip don't spray and pray think
that every time you press the button
it's costing you a dollar so the more
you shoot the more money it costs you so
the whole point here is to make you
shoot less but get better quality images
so it cost you a lot less money less
money is better you don't want to spend
too much so yeah that's what it's all
about
anticipation feel the moment shoot less
but take better pictures when you shoot
less jared polin froknowsphoto.com sia
the quick tip is brought to you by wile
sponsored by allen's camera been there
since 1977 which is actually before I
was born as you can see I'm on allen's
camera calm not fully up and functional
yet but they are working on that store
finally they do have attempts to
and you can always like them on Facebook
it's where I've been buying my gear all
the progear I have since I don't even
know when probably the last ten years
and I get all my used gear and new stuff
there so if you need some stuff they
compete with the big boys
check them out give them a call go onto
the website now on to the quick tip